.\" Manual page for fontimage by George Williams
.\" Copyright © 2006 by George Williams.
.TH FONTIMAGE: "1" "January 2013"
.
.
.SH NAME
.
.B fontimage - produce a font thumbnail image
.
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.
.B fontimage
.RB [ \-h,
.BR \-\-help ]
.RB [ \-V,
.BR \-\-version ]
.RB [ \-W,
.BR \-\-width\fR=\fIINT\fR ] 
.RB [ \-H,
.BR \-\-height\fR=\fIINT\fR ] 
.RB [ \-P,
.BR \-\-pixel-size\fR=\fIINT\fR ]
.RB [ \-t,
.BR \-\-text\fR=\fISTRING\fR ]
.RB [ \-\-o
.BR \-\-output\fR=\fIoutputfile\fR ]
.I fontfile
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.
The program
.B fontimage
loads a font, which may be in any format
.IR fontforge (1)
can read, and then produces an image showing representative glyphs of the font.

.SH OPTIONS
.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Provide a description with a list of the available options.
.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Display the current version.
.
.TP
.B \-W, \-\-width\fR=\fIINT\fR
Specifies the width of the output image. If this is omitted the image will
be as wide as necessary to display the text.
.TP
.B \-H, \-\-height\fR=\fIINT\fR
Specifies the height of the output image. If this is omitted the image will be
as high as necessary to display the text.
.TP
.B \-P, \-\-pixelsize\fR=\fIINT\fR
Specifies the pixelsize used to display the text. This argument may be specified
multiple times and each refers to any \-\-text lines that follow it.
.TP
.B \-t, \-\-text\fR=\fISTRING\fR
Specifies a line of text to be displayed. The string must be in UTF-8.
This argument may be specified multiple times to
provide several lines of text. If no \-\-text arguments are supplied
.IR fontimage
will examine the font, looking for various scripts it knows about, and will
try to display something appropriate for each.
.TP
.B \-o, \-\-output\fR=\fIoutfile\fR
Specifies the output filename for the image. The type of image will be determined
by the file's extension. Currently only ".bmp" and ".png" are recognized. If
omitted
.IR fontimage
will choose an output name based on the font's fontname field.
.\" .SH ENVIRONMENT
.\" .SH FILES
.\" .SH EXAMPLES
.\" .SH DIAGNOSTICS
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fontforge (1)
.LP
The HTML version of the
.I fontforge
manual at:
.br
\fChttp://fontforge.sourceforge.net/\fP
.\" .SH STANDARDS
.\" .SH HISTORY
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 2006 by George Williams (gww@silcom.com).
.\" .SH BUGS
.\" end of file
