.\" Manual page by Tom Harvey, subsequently modified by George Williams.
.\" Copyright © 2000-2002 by George Williams.
.\" Re-edited to use standard -man macros by RPC Rodgers, 23 October 2002.
.ds Ps P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2
.TH SORTSMILL-EDITOR: "1" "January 2013"
.
.
.SH NAME
.
.B sortsmill-editor \- create and modify PostScript, TrueType and SVG fonts
.
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.
.B sortsmill-editor
.RB [ \-h,
.BR \-\-help ]
.RB [ \-V,
.BR \-\-version ]
.RB [ \-a,
.BR \-\-all-glyphs ]
.RB [ \-l,
.BR \-\-last ]
.RB [ \-r,
.BR \-\-recover\fR=\fImode\fR ]
.RB [ \-\-display\fR=\fIDISPLAY\fR ]
.RB [ \-\-sync ]
.I fontfile ...
.sp
.B smed
.RB [ \-h,
.BR \-\-help ]
.RB [ \-V,
.BR \-\-version ]
.RB [ \-a,
.BR \-\-all-glyphs ]
.RB [ \-l,
.BR \-\-last ]
.RB [ \-r,
.BR \-\-recover\fR=\fImode\fR ]
.RB [ \-\-display\fR=\fIDISPLAY\fR ]
.RB [ \-\-sync ]
.I fontfile ...
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.
The program
.I sortsmill-editor
allows you to create and modify font files,
accepting input in the following formats
(with associated file extensions appearing in parentheses):
.TP
Glyph Bitmap Distribution (.bdf)
.TP
Macintosh resource fonts (.dfont, .bin, .hqx)
.TP
OpenType (.otf)
.TP
.IR sortsmill-editor " spline font database (.sfd)"
.TP
\*(Ps, which includes:
.RS
.TP
ASCII format (.pfa)
.TP
Binary format (.pfb)
.TP
CID-keyed fonts, Adobe convention used primarily for Asian characters (.cid, .otf)
.TP
\*(Ps Type 0 (.ps)
.TP
\*(Ps Type 3 (.ps)
.RE
.TP
Scaleable vector graphics fonts (.svg)
.TP
TeX bitmap (.pk)
.TP
TrueType (.ttf, .ttc)
.TP
X11 bitmap (.pcf)
.LP
If the argument list contains a font file name (or several),
.I sortsmill-editor
opens a
.B fontview
window for each font displaying the characters of the that font.
In the absence of options or arguments,
the program opens a file-picker window,
allowing you to browse your disk to find a font file,
or create a new one.
.LP
This manual page is intended only as a rudimentary overview;
see the HTML Users Manual for more complete information.
.SH OPTIONS
.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Provide a description with a list of the available options.
.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Display the current version.
.
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-all\-glyphs
Load all glyphs in the 'glyf' table of a truetype collection.
.
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-last
Opens whatever font you last edited with
.I sortsmill-editor.
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-recover\fR=\fImode\fR
Control the crash recovery mechanism
(helpful if crash recovery causes problems),
where
.I mode
takes on one of three allowed settings:
.RS
.TP
.B auto
perform automatic recovery (default) if the program crashed before saving changes.
.TP
.B clean
Delete recovery information.
.TP
.B none
Suppress crash recovery.
.RE
.
.TP
.B \-\-display\fR=\fIDISPLAY\fR
Employ the X display specified by the string
.I DISPLAY
(for example: localhost:0).
.
.TP
.B \-\-sync
Make X synchronous.
Used primarily for debugging, this option slows X down.
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
If any of the following environment variables exist,
they are used:
.TP
.B AUTOTRACE
Specifies the location of the autotrace program (usually sortsmill-editor can figure
this out without help, but not always).
.TP
.B MF
Specifies the location of the metafont program.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.FontForge/autosave/
crash recovery directory
.TP
.B /usr/local/share/doc/fontforge/*.html
optional location for online documentation.
.TP
.B /usr/local/share/fontforge/*.cidmap
"encoding" files for Adobe's cid formats
from \fChttp://fontforge.sourceforge.net/cidmaps.tgz\fP
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sortsmill-compare (1)
.LP
The HTML version of the
.I FontForge
manual,
available online at:
.TP
\fChttp://fontforge.sourceforge.net/\fP
.\" .SH STANDARDS
.\" .SH HISTORY
.SH NOTE
.BR fontforge
used to be called
.BR pfaedit.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 2000-2007 by George Williams (gww@silcom.com).
Original manual page by Tom Harvey, subsequently modified by George Williams.
Heavily rewritten and modified to use standard
.IR \-man " (5) macros by R.P.C. Rodgers (rodgers@nlm.nih.gov), 23 October 2002."
.SH BUGS
Undoubtedly many, but unknown and ever changing.
See
.IP
\fChttp://fontforge.sourceforge.net/#known-bugs\fP
for a current list.
.\" end of file
.\"
